hi everyone this is the I professed
correlations or weekly sync for a Monday
the 18th of May 2020 I'm brain I will be
your host we are going to discuss all
the top initiatives high priority issues
that we were working on we're gonna go
through the low priority initiatives and
then question is and also as an
accessory table so first thing on the
list for hypertonicity shift reasons you
do a quick update on JSOC if s we ship
this morning 0.44 that includes the
first pass of cancelable requests which
is quite neat set up everything in a
time out if you can use play room say
policies on the abort signal component
to go in the stack which they can use
name either the primary current or the
user passing in and a built-in you scott
cool I think there has data store for
the browser which is paid to school I do
peak which is we lose some of the in
direction of going by a tasteful level
and then never pay us and then let's go
it's a lot faster it's great and it's
and also because because the impact
latest is the same there's no my big
it's just all the use of you know
Global's and buildings which is
perceptively which is quite nice because
the hood webpack etc would undo those
buildings and so now we have control
over which ones we use okay ever so
slightly smaller month which is great
also the in the future web but I must
stop doing this automatic so it's
important to get this thing so that's
cool and that is it jaesuk yes there's a
PR I did I did a release and I did a
blog post on the same day literally
people can stop and comments on mr.
Pooler mistake yeah I broke up one was
released it could have been changes a
small patch release that they some
things for quickly and then a fix for it
IP this timeout bug and then we also an
issue we're looking to canceled a
someone's I think we're things okay if
you can't hold a deep-sea query you
might pin for a while so that was it
okay moving on to content yeah sorry we
haven't talked for two weeks there's a
little bit long and so last time we
talked I was going on about a like a
memory leak in the new Postgres the
sequel datastore but it turned out it
wasn't a memory leak it was just that
the Postgres server was running a
hundred percent CPU and so queries were
executed slowly things were getting
backed up and that was bad around but
could you use indexes text indexes
there's been quite a few points in my
life where I've just added an index and
things have got magically better and it
happens it's very pleasing when calling
home and then there's a hundred sent CPU
issue just went away and it just started
working great if I want to learn says
it's my internet connections unstable
but hopefully I can get through this
quick had a memory leak and I that was
fixed and then I deployed again and
there was seem to still be a memory leak
um so that's not good I took a peep off
profile and said sent it to Martin so
that's in the slack in the Hydra booster
check now if you're interested in that I
have not opened a bug yet for issue and
yeah go for it Steve what do I think
that might have just been spared a
second issue where we're using a lot of
memory but actually it may have been
that yeah yeah there was a like a cube
which I think was resolved and so I
updated to the latest version of quick
and deployed that and then I saw that it
was still being leaky so yeah so I'm
carrying on and the the hydras now that
we have the Postgres they just all have
like they all share the same data store
and there's around like 20 million
provider records in there that they're
serving right now so that's super cool
that kind of goes up and down according
to GC because they don't do forever but
it's sort of around 20 million at the
moment which is kind of cool I scaled
them up to 5 we've got 5 hydras with 100
heads each that's cool
over the weekend I switched to using the
P the P R stored datastore pistil
datastore so it's not in memory which is
kind of cool that removed about 10 5 to
10 gigs of like RAM usage which is which
is pretty mad but I did have GC he
enabled at first it has like for some
reason the date the pissed or the
datastore pistol has the concept of GC
and occasionally it was freaking in
Italy I often it was freaking out and so
it would I ever use all the memory or
crash so I turned off GC and things were
a lot better so I think there's still
some investigation to do then but in
theory we've just removed a whole chunk
of RAM that we were using and which is
great and so next up for me for hydras
and like I'm not I'm just kind of
working on this in my spare time at the
moment cuz I'm working on a DM project
but I wanted to add add five more hydras
get the older DHT boosters could
decommissioned I still need to finish a
document on what is remaining and like
what happened up until up
this point but hopefully I find some
time to do that thank you for listening
sorry that was really long it has been
two weeks no a lot happens in two weeks
okay moving on subdomain gateway please
do to your organizational ID
so a quick update is that the develop
link
finally supports a P and s and that
includes seamless conversion I don't
know I can share my screen just to show
that works so hopefully like if you open
up path on our canonical subdomain
gateway it will now automatically okay I
have companion if you don't have
companion and you open it it should at
some point resolve a DNS name and then
loaded from a subdomain I don't think we
want to wait for that it's faster but
not that fast I think another thing is
sort of like an open problem with
happened recently is the limitation of
the DNS name is general e the DNS back
it has hard-coded in RFC limits of how
long a single label which is between
dots in a domain name can be and the
overall entire name how long that can be
and we are due to the fact that we are
sort of like planning to switch to those
new keys that sort of like got populated
closer on our timeline so the problem
here is that if we switch to those key
edie
255 19 Keys we will run over the 63
character limit which is super
unfortunate because we just landed
subdomain gateways and now the cid of
like
we plan to switch the default trip like
the default keys to that new new thing
we will run over that limit so that
means I pianist websites would have
problem because you are not able to
resolve name that's over like has the
label over that limit so that's an issue
if you want to like learn more details
about that I think that's probably
something we may want to have like a
design discussion I'm not sure probably
still might has some thoughts here first
problem like there are two issues like
one is that if we switch to this new key
standard we will run over the limit in
our default IP and aspect so that's like
the problem one and the second problem
is like the generic one of at any point
someone can pick a longer hash for
example sha-512 and that's super long
and it will also like run over that
limit so it's like and then didn't you
get a discussion event turns out even
like slack has like hard-coded dns back
into the way the links are detected so
you can see that even like those two
characters here were not picked up so
it's like super unfortunate and like the
while a solution is to just split after
after at the limit of 63 characters and
then the remainder remainder will be in
the next sub label that's fine from the
security perspective because we would
maximize the size of the label which is
used for calculating origin and on our
gateways anyway it's it's like sulfide
selected but just like in case someone
is like doing DNS hijacking or something
that would still provide the proper
isolation like here are there better
ways I don't think I don't think so
there's
a longer discussion I think Stephen may
want to have like a design design
meeting maybe later and there's like a
separate section for that it's just like
me highlighting the dishes still open
we have IP NS subdomain support in meta
mask and there's also like open TR from
in fira to support wild card subdomain
gateway so for example to allow having a
subdomain per user of gateway provider
so they have like their own origin
isolation on top of the urge in
isolation of the gateways I think that's
it for subdomain gateway news yeah III
don't know if Stephen wants to add
something now or maybe later in the
design discussions
well this much of stuff at the bottom
about all the problems in trade-offs
yeah one like like we could use a
shorter encoding of things but that was
require like yeah well making changes
that instantly to be or not making DPM
to live to be which would then mean that
we would it would be harder to make
these Eph let's see if we wanted make
them later so kind of stuck there yeah
by level do you wanted to schedule a
design meeting claims week just hash it
out yeah I think so we should at least
come up with some like rules of thumb
the collect my personal rule of thumb
please do not like compromise future
optimizations like the one like ten
percent percent on the lip p2p level for
a quick win for the quick ux win today
there are things like that so i think we
should have a conversation for that so
we never skipped a couple pieces from
the concentrating section in the DHT and
to treat
[Music]
we part which we talked about we we've
got a few things for FS 0.6 including
just making the DHT a little more
performant reducing allocations fixing
some bug some some things in improving
the query times by stretching the
queries huh we're gonna try and land we
spent most of last week doing some you
know discussions about how we do not
reverse all and I confess in the p2p and
what we would like to see some results
include having a dial back protocol
would be good and would at the very
least make it easy for public gateways
to get in front to get data out of nodes
that are behind not so that you know if
you're running you know I confess
desktop at home behind your not nothing
is configured you don't have you PNP or
anything like that at least you'll still
be able to get your data from the
gateways it's not as good as having say
like full hole punching setup for
letting two nodes that are both behind
nots
talk to each other but that seems like
another another thing to prioritize as
well so things like WebRTC may be using
turn just as it is even if we don't want
to go the full auto relay route yeah
those those sorts of things
this is especially helpful now it's like
sort of step one we cleared we cleared
nodded nodes out of the DHT and now it's
like step two
how do we give these native nodes like
you know about a better experience then
we can start you know thinking about how
we want to reinforce
yes a lot of these method nerds will
feel a bit like browser nodes when no
one can dial me
yeah I think there are also some issues
I think from there in character but when
up maybe about at the very least trying
to in the near future be able to inform
users as to like they're not status so
that they can understand why something's
not working right like oops I'm behind a
firewall that like denies all inbound
connections I shouldn't be surprised
that nobody can get any data for me
right because sometimes users will just
assume it's an idea fest thing when in
reality it's like their company has a
firewall that it denies inbound
connections there's nothing we can do
about that right now
cool nine minutes left unguent yeah
it's republic's yeah just a couple of
things I'm working on the moment one is
doing some performance improvements to
help with some final coin use cases and
secondly I'm also doing quite a big
refactor just to tighten up
synchronization of how we sort of
request wants with sessions and how that
syncs up with with what's in the block
store
- visa various continents
yes very quick update so two weeks ago I
said something to the effect of yeah I
need to prevent this one thing and then
we're ready
five thousand lines of changes later
literally it is ready so everything
converges with everything performance
that looks exactly where it's supposed
to be I am right now working in parallel
on writing documentation for all this
and getting replicates an experiment
that Michael did last Michael Andrew did
last year on ingesting to interpose
story to see which parts of the work
should be first migrated to go because
because there are several pieces of this
to see which one is the most wind so we
can focus on that just I have cool show
anyone is rust okay pistone Britain's
yes so basically in the it's everything
finished now so the the form a stone
with a key book indication integration
is then everything is merging the 0.28
release branch and I've been discussing
some stuff with Lydell regarding the
metadata book and initially we didn't
have it in the scope for this release
and for these improvements in the
piercer but since I was in this context
in it would be like two or three days of
work we decided to also implement it
it's already implemented and also merged
in the 0.28 release so basically the
next steps now are relieved as your dot
twenty eight which we are honest and I
would say basically we
everything last week Jacob will be out
this week but we plan to release it
until it comes back next week and with
that also integrate this on Jessica fest
which I'm currently working on and it's
basically just updates to the new branch
of the 0.28 and that's it one next our
council will request some choice of EFS
and see the shipped as part of the new
releases the next like thing to do here
is to get some of the sub components to
councils things so and we look at bits
what so when you want a CID you don't
have it goes into the one list if you
cancel out a question should come out of
the botanist that's going to be the next
thing to do and for the high priority
initiatives so on to the other
initiatives low low priority or on hold
ones unix festival month when five and
twelve confess we've got a bit migration
to the multi it's multi hash keys in the
bookstore say we had a we had a meeting
about this last Tuesday which was very
active we decided way forward in the
store
blocked by montage and then the rust
team is going to look at storing
metadata around those blocks which
there's a link in the notes to the
resolution of pinning system revamp in
choice ipfs so this was kind of
predicated on the app of the multi house
of keys in the block school discussion
which has happened so you can afford
with this now gonna do the bit stop some
bits what stuff first that's written
into the whole week and then next week
probably nuking okay
design review proposals we've never
meeting to agree how to handle
subdomains for CID is number sixty-three
characters please add yourself to the
list if you want to be appointed to that
meeting
any other designer need for those no
cool blockers and asks anyone blocked by
name or need someone to do something
questions right here some questions so
one of the things today cannot run into
as I was trying to write a proposal for
sharing with community about the
assuring a node across browser tubs
things that came up is how do we share
the configuration between those nodes
across the tops because if you sure the
nodes and you have to share the
configuration at least the way syncs
them now I try to go through all the
configuration options that are at least
documented to try to put some notes I
think generally it might be a good idea
to reduce some of the configuration and
choose what makes sense for the browser
and have that and have that out of the
box if people want to opt out of it
since they can use their own thing but a
few shares and you end up sharing the
configuration so I could use some help
first of all looking at my notes whether
they make sense they're all or not and
generally I think it's kind of more
open-ended conversation because I think
even though this is specific to the
context that I'm kind of looking at
I think it's broader than that if you
think about native ipfs support within
the browsers like what brave is doing an
opera is doing you can imagine that
there will be no configuration that
every table makes or every better does
their own because I kept has no D is
part of the browser I think there's also
an issues that came up before with the
textile that still being a single
radical be listing an idea has to be the
sayings they all end up embedding their
own idea versus and do no sharing so I
don't know what the right format for
this conversation to have is but I could
use some help sir
and I think by looking at the bunch of
the configuration options that we have
now I think two things that I sort of
recognize arists some of the
configuration things seems like could be
part of the API call options that you
pass in they don't necessarily have to
be the whole node configuration things
that you set up ahead of time and I
think wherever it's possible it probably
makes sense to do that there and the
other one is some other configuration
seems like user ought to be making the
choices like which nodes it's willing to
share data or which would which form to
join versus in better of the application
to do so so we are about to run out of
time for this meeting so if people need
to drop off they can drop off I would
suggest for this create proposal put any
kit hub issue and then try and find some
time in everyone's calendar for your
stakeholders to discuss the proposal
would that be a design review proposal
okay I guess it's I don't think I have
enough knowledge to be able to propose
something specific so is there any
format where I can ask for a feedback
before I propose something specific yeah
usually just create an issue however you
thinking and ask people to get you back
so try to write as little as possible
with many many many ball points it
exceeds people to digest
Thanks
- for watchin
the parking lot anything that doesn't
fit into the other categories amazing
then I think we're done
thank you very much everyone this has
been mean I could has confrontations
with music for Monday the 18th of May
2020 he's safe on the Internet